Rewritten autoinstallation chapter of client configuration guide (#917)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/client-configuration/pages/autoinst-intro.adoc

[[autoinstallation]]
= Autoinstallation

> A classic way to use {productname} is to register clients that are already running. You might have installed these machines manually just before registering them to {productname}, or they can have existed for years, even before {productname} has been introduced into your infrastructure.

Author: ok

> An alternative is to have {productname} help you install the operating systems on those machines, and register them to {productname} in one go. This installation will be mostly or totally automated, avoiding you to spend time answering installer questions, and allowing you to quickly install and register many systems.

Author: the method *is* automated, the mileage can vary only to which extent

> An alternative is to have {productname} help you install the operating systems on those machines, and register them to {productname} in one go. This installation will be mostly or totally automated, avoiding you to spend time answering installer questions, and allowing you to quickly install and register many systems.

Author: Much better English indeed, applying.

> There are four ways to install an operating system from {productname}:

Author: lol

. in-place on already registered {productname} clients;
. via the network, using the PXE boot technology;
. by preparing an installation CD-ROM and then going to the machine to boot on that medium;

> . as part of the {productname} {smr} solution.

Author: You are right, my bad.

> The in-place reinstallation assumes that:

Author: that's already detailed about

> The in-place reinstallation assumes that:

Author: ok :smiley_cat: .

* a previous operating system had already been installed on the client;

> * the client had already been registered previously.

Author: see previous remark

> For details about that method, please refer to xref:client-configuration:autoinst-reinstall.adoc[Reinstalling Registered Systems].

Author: I think you guys should put something in the square brackets. If not, an ugly url of some adoc file appears instead.

I'll discuss it with Joseph.

> The PXE boot installation works on unprepared machines. However, it can only be performed in certain network configurations:

Author: I must really speak a terrible Englis, because there are several places like this where my prose leads to a complete misunderstanding.

I meant "it works on unformatted machines"

* the {productname} Server or one of its proxies are on the same local network as the machine you want to install (or you have a DHCP relay that allows you to cross all routers in between);
* you are able to set up or to configure a DHCP server;
* the client to install is able to boot with PXE, and you can to configure it to do so.

> For details about that method, please refer to xref:client-configuration:autoinst-pxeboot.adoc[Installation via PXE Boot].

Author: ok

> The CD-ROM approach allows to bypass these constraints on the network. However, it assumes the machine can read the CD-ROM that you prepared, and can boot from it. It also implies that you have physical access to this machine.

Author: ok, but i will keep "these" as it refers to the details above

> For details about that method, please refer to xref:client-configuration:autoinst-xxxxx.adoc[].

Author: ok

> The {productname} {smr} approach will not be detailed in this section, for more information please refer to the xref:retail:retail-overview.adoc[Retail Guide].

Author: ok

[NOTE]
====

> Autoinstallation of {ubuntu} and {debian} is not supported.

Author: ah, yes, good idea

[[autoinstallation]]
= Operating System Installation

Generally, you register clients that are already running.
You might have installed these machines manually just before registering them to {productname}, or they might be pre-existing systems that were installed before you added {productname} to your environment.

Alternatively, you can use {productname} to help you install an operating system and register it to {productname} in one go.
This method is partially or totally automated, so you can save time answering installer questions, and is especially useful if you have many clients you want to install and register.

There are several ways to install an operating system from {productname}:

> * in-place, on clients that are already registered;
> * over the network, using PXE booting;
> * preparing an installation CD-ROM, and then going to the machine to boot on that medium;
> * as part of the {productname} {smr} solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In-place, on clients that are already registered.
* Over the network, using PXE booting.
* Prepare an installation CD-ROM, and then going to the machine to boot on that medium.
* As part of {productname} {smr}.
```

> The in-place reinstallation method assumes that * a previous operating system has already been installed on the client, and that the client has already been registered to {productname}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The in-place reinstallation method assumes that a previous operating system has already been installed on the client, and that the client has already been registered to {productname}.
```
